Tuesday 21st April, 2015
Begin process of making typeface from scans of design on paper.
First twenty done.
Note (09062015):Hiragana alphabet to be completed in the order of the いろは歌 (Iroha alphabet poem).

Tentative name: Ichou Mincho.
Begin work on design digitisation, starting with the order of the Iroha song.

Wednesday 22nd April
Presume that 10pt is just doable in .95mm photopolymer, 14pt in 1.52mm photopolymer.
Rough versions of hiragana い and ろ outlined.

Saturday 25th April
Four characters rougly completed.

Friday 1st May
Hiragana ほ roughly completed.
Hiragana へ started.

Saturday 9th May
More work on hiragana へ.

Tuesday 12th May
Hiragana へ first rough design completed. Slight modification to hiragana ほ.
Begin work on hiragana と.

Thursday 14th May
More work on hiragana と – roughly completed?

Tuesday 9th June
(Finally back to this computerand able to return to kana design.)
Begin work on hiragana ち.
Hiragana ち rougly completed.
Begin work on hiragana り.
Hiragana り roughly completed

Thursday 11th June
Small changes made to hiragana ち.
Begin work on hiragana ぬ.
Hiragana ぬ roughly completed.

Friday 12th June
Hiragana る rough draft created.
Left-side “tate-sen” on は, に and ほ modified to be more vertical.
Loops on は and ほ modified.

Tuesday 30th June
Start on hiragana わ.
Japanese Type design notes file created to document oddities and design features of Japanese fonts.
Small changes made to hiragana を (the creation of which I forgot to document – probably ~26th-ish (I think …)).
Hiragana わ roughly completed.
Small changes made to hiragana へ.
Start on hiragana か.

Wednesday 1st July
Small changes made to hiragana を.
Hiragana か rough draft completed.
Start on hiragana よ.
Hiragana よ rough draft completed.
Small changes made to hiragana に.
Small changes made to hiragana わ.

Thursday 2nd July
Hiragana た rough draft completed. (Changes to be made?)
Changes made to hiragana わ, り and ぬ.
Small changes made to hiragana を, る and ろ.
Hiragana れ rough draft completed.
Begin work on hiragana そ.
Hiragana そ rough draft completed.

Tuesday 7th July
Begin work on hiragana つ.
Small changes made to hiragana ぬ and ち.
Hiragana つ rough draft completed.
Small changes made to hiragana そ and ろ.
Small changes made to hiragana り.
Hiragana ね roughly completed.

Thursday 9th July
Begin work on hiragana な.

Friday 10th July
Small change made to hiragana た.
Hiragana な rough draft completed. (Changes to be made?)
Hiragana ら rough draft completed.

Wednesday 15th July
Small changes made to hiragana た.
Small change made to hiragana る.
Hiragana む rough draft completed.
Hiragana う rough draft completed. Halfway mark (for the basic hiragana set).

Thursday 16th July
Small changes made to hiragana る.
Hiragana ゐ rough draft completed.
Changes made to hiragana ぬ.
Hiragana の rough draft completed.
Hiragana お rough draft completed.

Friday 17th July
Hiragana く rough draft completed.
Small chnage made to hiragana の.
Changes made to hiragana ぬ.
Hiragana や rough draft completed.

Saturday 18th July
Changes made to hiragana の.
Hiragana ま rough craft completed.
Hiragana け rough draft completed.

Sunday 19th July
Small change made to hiragana お.
Small changes made to hiragana ね, れ and わ.
Small changes made to hiragana り, ら and の.
Hiragana ふ rough draft comleted. (Changes to be made?)
Hiragana こ rough draft completed.

Monday 20th July
Small changes made to hiragana う.
Hiragana え rough draft completed.
Hiragana て rough draft completed.
Hiragana あ rough draft completed.
Hiragana さ rough draft completed. (Changes to be made?)

Tuesday 21st July
Changes made to hiragana さ.
Hiragana き rough draft completed.
Hiragana ゆ rough draft completed.
Hiragana め rough draft completed.

Thursday 23rd July
Hiragana み rough draft completed.
Hiragana し rough draft completed.

Friday 24th July
Hiragana ゑ rough draft completed.
Hiragana ひ rough draft completed.
Hiragana も rough draft completed. (Changes to be made?)

Wednesday 29th July
Small change made to hiragana も.
Hiragana せ rough draft completed.
Hiragana す rough draft completed.
Hiragana ん rough draft completed.
Basic hiragana rough set completed.
Split Ichou Mincho font into two seperate designs following the same structure: Ichou Minchou and Yue Mincho.
(Focus on Yue Mincho for project.)
Changes made to Yue Mincho.
Created rough 「 and 」.

Thursday 30th July
Created rough 、, 。, 々 and 〆.
Created rough 〈, 〉, 《, 》, 〓 and 〼.
Modified several hiragana to be more even.

Friday 31st July
Modified hiragana ね, れ and わ.
Spent time learning about “anchors” in FontForge.
Created Hiragana ゔ using anchors.
Hiragana ほ design revised.

(Using ほ as a guide, enlarge loops, even stroke widths, &c.)

Wednesday 5th August
Modified several hiragana.
Third test output.

Thursday 6th August
Fourth test output.
Several hiragana modified.

Friday 7th August
Fifth test output.
Adjustment of some hiragana to look more consistent in terms of weight.
Creation of slightly smaller guide box (5px smaller on all sides).

Monday 10th August
Sixth test output.
Adjustment of more hiragana to look more consistent in terms of weight.
Seventh test output.

Tuesday 11th August
Print-out on paper. Very pleased with design so far.
Adjustments to be made according to print-out observations.
Adjustment to hiragana to be more consistent.

Wednesday 12th August
Several hiragana modified to be more consistent.
Hiragana ゝ (sound repeat mark) rough draft created.
Eighth test output.
Small changes made to some hiragana.

Friday 14th August
Small changes made to some glyphs.
Hiragana っ rough draft created.

Tuesday 18th August
Hiragana た and な modified.
Fullwidth space created.
Test output.

Wednesday 19th August
Hiragana ゟ rough draft completed.
Refinement and spacing of several hiragana glyphs.
Test output.

Thursday 20th August
Created double character repeat mark.
Modified some hiragana.
Added dakuten to most hiragana.
Created ditto mark.
Added handakuten to hiragana は row.
Test output.

Thursday 27th August
Modified several hiragana.
Changed hiragana む.
Added some extra typographic marks.
Katakana イ, ク and ン created.
Test output.
Minor changes.
Test output.

Friday 28th August
Modifications made to several glyphs.
Katakana ケ, ニ and ー created.
Small hiragana ぁ, ぃ, ぅ, ぇ, ぉ, ゃ, ゅ, ょ, ゕ, and　ゖ created.
Test output.
Additional changes to spacing of small hiragana variants.

Friday 4th September
Hiragana み modified (scaled down).
Split font into digital and project* versions.
Modified several glyphs for better printing in project version.
Began to create ink-trapped version of the project version (may or may not complete).
Output Yue Print Mincho Small.
Test output (Yue Mincho).

¶
2016:
Friday 18th March



Notes:
*20160318: Project version is “printing” version.
Add space to kanji.
Make と a little less wide? Make ニ wider?
Horizontal setting small kana glyphs should be horizontally centred but moved down by 100. 84.5 - 85% size (84.5% and then broaden).
Remove 〱 and 〲 from finished (vertical) version?
Have ink-trapped up to hiragana あ in ink-trapped version.
Smallest point size for 1.52mm photopolymer should be about 16pt, and for .95mm photopolymer should be about 13pt.
